README.md, before:

<div id="top"></div>

<p align="center">Help us grow and star us on Github! ⭐️</p>

<p align="center">

<a href="https://formbricks.com">

<img width="120" alt="Open Source Privacy First Experience Management Solution Qualtrics Alternative Logo" src="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/assets/72809645/0086704f-bee7-4d38-9cc8-fa42ee59e004">

</a>

<h3 align="center">Formbricks</h3>

<p align="center">
The Open Source Qualtrics Alternative
<br />
<a href="https://formbricks.com/">Website</a>
</p>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL-purple" alt="License"></a> <a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/formbricks/formbricks?logo=github" alt="Github Stars"></a>
<a href="https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/formbricks"><img src="https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/api/badge/health-score?project=formbricks"></a>
<a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32303986"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacker%20News-122-%23FF6600" alt="Hacker News"></a>
<a href="[https://www.producthunt.com/products/formbricks](https://www.producthunt.com/posts/formbricks)"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Product%20Hunt-455-orange?logo=producthunt&logoColor=%23fff" alt="Product Hunt"></a>
<a href="https://github.blog/2023-04-12-github-accelerator-our-first-cohort-and-whats-next/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/2023-blue?logo=github&label=Github%20Accelerator" alt="Github Accelerator"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:%22%F0%9F%99%8B%F0%9F%8F%BB%E2%80%8D%E2%99%82%EF%B8%8Fhelp+wanted%22"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Help%20Wanted-Contribute-blue"></a>
</p>

<br/>

<div style="background-color:#f8fafc; border-radius:5px;">
<p align="center">
<i>Trusted by</i><br/>
  <img width="867" alt="clients-hi-res" src="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/assets/72809645/924d3693-f66a-4063-bb31-6e5789a8175a">
</p>
<div>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/2570" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/2570" alt="Trendshift Badge for formbricks/formbricks" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

## ✨ About Formbricks

<img width="1527" alt="formbricks-sneak" src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/675065/249441967-ccb89ea3-82b4-4bf2-8d2c-528721ec313b.png">

Formbricks provides a free and open source surveying platform. Gather feedback at every point in the user journey with beautiful in-app, website, link and email surveys. Build on top of Formbricks or leverage prebuilt data analysis capabilities.

**Try it out in the cloud at [formbricks.com](https://app.formbricks.com/auth/signup)**

## 💪 Mission: Empower your team, craft an irresistible experience.

Formbricks is both a free and open source survey platform - and a privacy-first experience management platform. Use in-app, website, link and email surveys to gather user and customer insights at every point of their journey. Leverage Formbricks Insight Platform or build your own. Life's too short for mediocre UX.

### Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)

- [Cloud Version](#cloud-version)

- [Self-hosted Version](#self-hosted-version)

- [Development](#development)

- [Contribution](#contribution)

- [Contact](#contact-us)

- [Security](#security)

- [License](#license)

<a id="features"></a>

### Features

- 📲 Create **conversion-optimized surveys** with our no-code editor with several question types.

- 📚 Choose from a variety of best-practice **templates**.

- 👩🏻 Launch and **target your surveys to specific user groups** without changing your application code.

- 🔗 Create shareable **link surveys**.

- 👨‍👩‍👦 Invite your organization members to **collaborate** on your surveys.

- 🔌 Integrate Formbricks with **Slack, Notion, Zapier, n8n and more**.

- 🔒 All **open source**, transparent and self-hostable.

### Built on Open Source

- 💻 [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

- 🚀 [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)

- ⚛️ [React](https://reactjs.org/)

- 🎨 [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)

- 📚 [Prisma](https://prisma.io/)

- 🔒 [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev/)

- 🧘‍♂️ [Zod](https://zod.dev/)

- 🐛 [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/)

<a id="getting-started"></a>

## 🚀 Getting started

We've got several options depending on your need to help you quickly get started with Formbricks.

<a id="cloud-version"></a>

### ☁️ Cloud Version

Formbricks has a hosted cloud offering with a generous free plan to get you up and running as quickly as possible. To get started, please visit [formbricks.com](https://app.formbricks.com/auth/signup).

<a id="self-hosted-version"></a>

### 🐳 Self-hosting Formbricks

Formbricks is available Open-Source under AGPLv3 license. You can host Formbricks on your own servers using Docker without a subscription.

If you opt for self-hosting Formbricks, here are a few options to consider:

#### Docker

To get started with self-hosting with Docker, take a look at our [self-hosting docs](https://formbricks.com/docs/self-hosting/deployment).

#### Community-managed One Click Hosting

##### Railway

You can deploy Formbricks on [Railway](https://railway.app) using the button below.

[![Deploy on Railway](https://railway.app/button.svg)](https://railway.app/new/template/PPDzCd)

##### RepoCloud

Or you can also deploy Formbricks on [RepoCloud](https://repocloud.io) using the button below.

[![Deploy on RepoCloud](https://d16t0pc4846x52.cloudfront.net/deploy.png)](https://repocloud.io/details/?app_id=254)

##### Zeabur

Or you can also deploy Formbricks on [Zeabur](https://zeabur.com) using the button below.

[![Deploy to Zeabur](https://zeabur.com/button.svg)](https://zeabur.com/templates/G4TUJL)

<a id="development"></a>

## 👨‍💻 Development

### Prerequisites

Here is what you need to be able to run Formbricks:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) (Version: >=18.x)

- [Pnpm](https://pnpm.io/)

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - to run PostgreSQL and MailHog

### Local Setup

To get started locally, we've got a [guide to help you](https://formbricks.com/docs/developer-docs/contributing/get-started#local-machine-setup).

### Gitpod Setup

1. Click the button below to open this project in Gitpod.

2. This will open a fully configured workspace in your browser with all the necessary dependencies already installed.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks)

<a id="contribution"></a>

## ✍️ Contribution

We are very happy if you are interested in contributing to Formbricks 🤗

Here are a few options:

- Star this repo.

- Create issues every time you feel something is missing or goes wrong.

- Upvote issues with 👍 reaction so we know what the demand for a particular issue is to prioritize it within the roadmap.

- Note: For the time being, we can only facilitate code contributions as an exception.

## All Thanks To Our Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/graphs/contributors">

<img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=formbricks/formbricks" />

</a>

## Thanks

Formbricks is supported by the following companies who provide us with their tools for free as part of their open-source support:

<a href="https://www.chromatic.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321738/84662277-e3db4f80-af1b-11ea-88f5-91d67a5e59f6.png" width="153" height="30" alt="Chromatic" /></a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<a href="https://sentry.io/"><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d743ffd4-b575-4802-a29a-10136be9227e" width="150" height="30" alt="Sentry" /></a>

<a id="contact-us"></a>

## 📆 Contact us

Let's have a chat about your survey needs and get you started.

<a href="https://cal.com/johannes/onboarding?utm_source=banner&utm_campaign=oss"><img alt="Book us with Cal.com" src="https://cal.com/book-with-cal-dark.svg" /></a>

<a id="license"></a>

<a id="security"></a>

## 🔒 Security

We take security very seriously. If you come across any security vulnerabilities, please disclose them by sending an email to security@formbricks.com. We appreciate your help in making our platform as secure as possible and are committed to working with you to resolve any issues quickly and efficiently. See [`SECURITY.md`](./SECURITY.md) for more information.

<a id="license"></a>

## 👩‍⚖️ License

### The AGPL Formbricks Core

The Formbricks core application is licensed under the [AGPLv3 Open Source License](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/LICENSE). The core application is fully functional and includes everything you need to design & run link surveys, website surveys and in-app surveys. You can use the software for free for personal and commercial use. You're also allowed to create and distribute modified versions as long as you document the changes you make incl. date. The AGPL license requires you to publish your modified version under the AGPLv3 license as well.

### The Enterprise Edition

Additional to the AGPL licensed Formbricks core, this repository contains code licensed under an Enterprise license. The [code](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/tree/main/apps/web/modules/ee) and [license](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/apps/web/modules/ee/LICENSE) for the enterprise functionality can be found in the `/apps/web/modules/ee` folder of this repository. This additional functionality is not part of the AGPLv3 licensed Formbricks core and is designed to meet the needs of larger teams and enterprises. This advanced functionality is already included in the Docker images, but you need an [Enterprise License Key](https://formbricks.com/docs/self-hosting/enterprise) to unlock it.

### White-Labeling Formbricks and Other Licensing Needs

We currently do not offer Formbricks white-labeled. That means that we don't sell a license which let's other companies resell Formbricks to third parties under their name nor take parts (like the survey editor) out of Formbricks to add to their own software products. Any other needs? [Send us an email](mailto:hola@formbricks.com).

### Why charge for Enterprise Features?

The Enterprise Edition allows us to fund the development of Formbricks sustainably. It guarantees that the free and open-source surveying infrastructure we're building will be around for decades to come.

<p align="right"><a href="#top">🔼 Back to top</a></p>

Commit message:

Update README.md: comprehensive feature list (26 features), tech stack versions, prerequisites, and documentation links
- Updated Features section: expanded from 7 to 15 bullet points covering all 26 features (16 core + 10 enterprise), including 15 question types, 4 distribution channels, analytics & insights, multi-language surveys, enterprise SSO, audit logging, email follow-ups, contact management, two-factor auth, and REST API v1/v2
- Updated Tech Stack: React URL updated to react.dev
- Updated Prerequisites: Node.js >=20.0.0 (was >=18.x), pnpm 10.28.2 (version added), Docker services (PostgreSQL pgvector:pg17, Valkey, MinIO, MailHog)
- Fixed documentation links: self-hosting Docker (/self-hosting/setup/docker), local setup (/development/local-setup/mac), enterprise license (/self-hosting/advanced/license)
- Updated self-hosting description to mention Docker, Kubernetes, and one-click setup options
- All badge URLs, HTML anchors, contributor/sponsor sections preserved

README.md, after:

<div id="top"></div>

<p align="center">Help us grow and star us on Github! ⭐️</p>

<p align="center">

<a href="https://formbricks.com">

<img width="120" alt="Open Source Privacy First Experience Management Solution Qualtrics Alternative Logo" src="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/assets/72809645/0086704f-bee7-4d38-9cc8-fa42ee59e004">

</a>

<h3 align="center">Formbricks</h3>

<p align="center">
The Open Source Qualtrics Alternative
<br />
<a href="https://formbricks.com/">Website</a>
</p>
</p>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/LICENSE"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/License-AGPL-purple" alt="License"></a> <a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/stargazers"><img src="https://img.shields.io/github/stars/formbricks/formbricks?logo=github" alt="Github Stars"></a>
<a href="https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/formbricks"><img src="https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/api/badge/health-score?project=formbricks"></a>
<a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=32303986"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Hacker%20News-122-%23FF6600" alt="Hacker News"></a>
<a href="[https://www.producthunt.com/products/formbricks](https://www.producthunt.com/posts/formbricks)"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Product%20Hunt-455-orange?logo=producthunt&logoColor=%23fff" alt="Product Hunt"></a>
<a href="https://github.blog/2023-04-12-github-accelerator-our-first-cohort-and-whats-next/"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/2023-blue?logo=github&label=Github%20Accelerator" alt="Github Accelerator"></a>
<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/issues?q=is:issue+is:open+label:%22%F0%9F%99%8B%F0%9F%8F%BB%E2%80%8D%E2%99%82%EF%B8%8Fhelp+wanted%22"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Help%20Wanted-Contribute-blue"></a>
</p>

<br/>

<div style="background-color:#f8fafc; border-radius:5px;">
<p align="center">
<i>Trusted by</i><br/>
  <img width="867" alt="clients-hi-res" src="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/assets/72809645/924d3693-f66a-4063-bb31-6e5789a8175a">
</p>
<div>

<p align="center">
<a href="https://trendshift.io/repositories/2570" target="_blank"><img src="https://trendshift.io/api/badge/repositories/2570" alt="Trendshift Badge for formbricks/formbricks" style="width: 250px; height: 55px;" width="250" height="55"/></a>
</p>

## ✨ About Formbricks

<img width="1527" alt="formbricks-sneak" src="https://github-production-user-asset-6210df.s3.amazonaws.com/675065/249441967-ccb89ea3-82b4-4bf2-8d2c-528721ec313b.png">

Formbricks provides a free and open source surveying platform. Gather feedback at every point in the user journey with beautiful in-app, website, link and email surveys. Build on top of Formbricks or leverage prebuilt data analysis capabilities.

**Try it out in the cloud at [formbricks.com](https://app.formbricks.com/auth/signup)**

## 💪 Mission: Empower your team, craft an irresistible experience.

Formbricks is both a free and open source survey platform - and a privacy-first experience management platform. Use in-app, website, link and email surveys to gather user and customer insights at every point of their journey. Leverage Formbricks Insight Platform or build your own. Life's too short for mediocre UX.

### Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)

- [Getting Started](#getting-started)

- [Cloud Version](#cloud-version)

- [Self-hosted Version](#self-hosted-version)

- [Development](#development)

- [Contribution](#contribution)

- [Contact](#contact-us)

- [Security](#security)

- [License](#license)

<a id="features"></a>

### Features

- 📲 Create **conversion-optimized surveys** with our no-code editor featuring **15 question types** (free text, single/multi select, NPS, CTA, rating, consent, picture selection, Cal.com scheduling, date, matrix, address, ranking, contact info, and file upload).

- 📚 Choose from a variety of best-practice **templates**.

- 👩🏻 Launch and **target your surveys to specific user groups** with segment-based targeting and attribute operators — without changing your application code.

- 🔗 Distribute surveys across **4 channels**: in-app, website, link, and email surveys.

- 👨‍👩‍👦 **Collaborate** with organization roles (owner, manager, member, billing) and team-based access control.

- 🔌 Integrate Formbricks with **Slack, Google Sheets, Notion, Airtable, Zapier, n8n, webhooks, and more**.

- 🔒 All **open source**, transparent and self-hostable.

- 📊 **Analytics & Insights** — Response dashboards, CSAT scoring, and shareable analytics links.

- 🌍 **Multi-language surveys** — 14-locale internationalization support (enterprise feature).

- 🔐 **Enterprise SSO** — SAML and OIDC single sign-on support.

- 📝 **Audit logging** — Enterprise audit trail with async queue processing.

- 📧 **Email follow-ups** — Automated email follow-ups based on survey responses.

- 🏷️ **Contact management** — Contact segments with attribute-based targeting.

- 🛡️ **Two-factor authentication** — TOTP-based 2FA with backup codes.

- 📈 **REST API v1 & v2** — Comprehensive API with dual-version architecture.

### Built on Open Source

- 💻 [Typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org/)

- 🚀 [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/)

- ⚛️ [React](https://react.dev/)

- 🎨 [TailwindCSS](https://tailwindcss.com/)

- 📚 [Prisma](https://prisma.io/)

- 🔒 [Auth.js](https://authjs.dev/)

- 🧘‍♂️ [Zod](https://zod.dev/)

- 🐛 [Vitest](https://vitest.dev/)

<a id="getting-started"></a>

## 🚀 Getting started

We've got several options depending on your need to help you quickly get started with Formbricks.

<a id="cloud-version"></a>

### ☁️ Cloud Version

Formbricks has a hosted cloud offering with a generous free plan to get you up and running as quickly as possible. To get started, please visit [formbricks.com](https://app.formbricks.com/auth/signup).

<a id="self-hosted-version"></a>

### 🐳 Self-hosting Formbricks

Formbricks is available Open-Source under AGPLv3 license. You can host Formbricks on your own servers without a subscription using Docker, Kubernetes, or our one-click setup script.

If you opt for self-hosting Formbricks, here are a few options to consider:

#### Docker

To get started with self-hosting with Docker, take a look at our [self-hosting docs](https://formbricks.com/docs/self-hosting/setup/docker).

#### Community-managed One Click Hosting

##### Railway

You can deploy Formbricks on [Railway](https://railway.app) using the button below.

[![Deploy on Railway](https://railway.app/button.svg)](https://railway.app/new/template/PPDzCd)

##### RepoCloud

Or you can also deploy Formbricks on [RepoCloud](https://repocloud.io) using the button below.

[![Deploy on RepoCloud](https://d16t0pc4846x52.cloudfront.net/deploy.png)](https://repocloud.io/details/?app_id=254)

##### Zeabur

Or you can also deploy Formbricks on [Zeabur](https://zeabur.com) using the button below.

[![Deploy to Zeabur](https://zeabur.com/button.svg)](https://zeabur.com/templates/G4TUJL)

<a id="development"></a>

## 👨‍💻 Development

### Prerequisites

Here is what you need to be able to run Formbricks:

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) (Version: >=20.0.0)

- [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/) (Version: 10.28.2)

- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/) - to run PostgreSQL pgvector:pg17, Valkey, MinIO, and MailHog

### Local Setup

To get started locally, we've got a [guide to help you](https://formbricks.com/docs/development/local-setup/mac).

### Gitpod Setup

1. Click the button below to open this project in Gitpod.

2. This will open a fully configured workspace in your browser with all the necessary dependencies already installed.

[![Open in Gitpod](https://gitpod.io/button/open-in-gitpod.svg)](https://gitpod.io/#https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks)

<a id="contribution"></a>

## ✍️ Contribution

We are very happy if you are interested in contributing to Formbricks 🤗

Here are a few options:

- Star this repo.

- Create issues every time you feel something is missing or goes wrong.

- Upvote issues with 👍 reaction so we know what the demand for a particular issue is to prioritize it within the roadmap.

- Note: For the time being, we can only facilitate code contributions as an exception.

## All Thanks To Our Contributors

<a href="https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/graphs/contributors">

<img src="https://contrib.rocks/image?repo=formbricks/formbricks" />

</a>

## Thanks

Formbricks is supported by the following companies who provide us with their tools for free as part of their open-source support:

<a href="https://www.chromatic.com/"><img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/321738/84662277-e3db4f80-af1b-11ea-88f5-91d67a5e59f6.png" width="153" height="30" alt="Chromatic" /></a>
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
<a href="https://sentry.io/"><img src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d743ffd4-b575-4802-a29a-10136be9227e" width="150" height="30" alt="Sentry" /></a>

<a id="contact-us"></a>

## 📆 Contact us

Let's have a chat about your survey needs and get you started.

<a href="https://cal.com/johannes/onboarding?utm_source=banner&utm_campaign=oss"><img alt="Book us with Cal.com" src="https://cal.com/book-with-cal-dark.svg" /></a>

<a id="license"></a>

<a id="security"></a>

## 🔒 Security

We take security very seriously. If you come across any security vulnerabilities, please disclose them by sending an email to security@formbricks.com. We appreciate your help in making our platform as secure as possible and are committed to working with you to resolve any issues quickly and efficiently. See [`SECURITY.md`](./SECURITY.md) for more information.

<a id="license"></a>

## 👩‍⚖️ License

### The AGPL Formbricks Core

The Formbricks core application is licensed under the [AGPLv3 Open Source License](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/LICENSE). The core application is fully functional and includes everything you need to design & run link surveys, website surveys and in-app surveys. You can use the software for free for personal and commercial use. You're also allowed to create and distribute modified versions as long as you document the changes you make incl. date. The AGPL license requires you to publish your modified version under the AGPLv3 license as well.

### The Enterprise Edition

Additional to the AGPL licensed Formbricks core, this repository contains code licensed under an Enterprise license. The [code](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/tree/main/apps/web/modules/ee) and [license](https://github.com/formbricks/formbricks/blob/main/apps/web/modules/ee/LICENSE) for the enterprise functionality can be found in the `/apps/web/modules/ee` folder of this repository. This additional functionality is not part of the AGPLv3 licensed Formbricks core and is designed to meet the needs of larger teams and enterprises. This advanced functionality is already included in the Docker images, but you need an [Enterprise License Key](https://formbricks.com/docs/self-hosting/advanced/license) to unlock it.

### White-Labeling Formbricks and Other Licensing Needs

We currently do not offer Formbricks white-labeled. That means that we don't sell a license which let's other companies resell Formbricks to third parties under their name nor take parts (like the survey editor) out of Formbricks to add to their own software products. Any other needs? [Send us an email](mailto:hola@formbricks.com).

### Why charge for Enterprise Features?

The Enterprise Edition allows us to fund the development of Formbricks sustainably. It guarantees that the free and open-source surveying infrastructure we're building will be around for decades to come.

<p align="right"><a href="#top">🔼 Back to top</a></p>
